https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-14572 (#7081)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: acm_mce_integration/observe/acm_enable_vm_actions.adoc

[#enable-vm-actions]
= Enabling virtual machine actions (Technology Preview)

> To view `VirtualMachine` resources across all the clusters that {acm} manages, use the Search feature to list and filter the `VirtualMachine` resources created with the {ocp-virt}. You can also enable the following actions in your `VirtualMachine` resources:

Reviewer: If `VirtualMachine` has the `` wouldn't `Search` need to be as well? 

```suggestion
To view `VirtualMachine` resources across all the clusters that {acm} manages, use the `Search` feature to list and filter the `VirtualMachine` resources created with the {ocp-virt}. You can also enable the following actions in your `VirtualMachine` resources:
```

Author: Search doesn't need to be monospaced bc I'm speaking about the component.

[#enable-vm-actions]
= Enabling virtual machine actions (Technology Preview)

> To view `VirtualMachine` resources across all the clusters that {acm} manages, use the Search feature to list and filter the `VirtualMachine` resources created with the {ocp-virt}. You can also enable the following actions in your `VirtualMachine` resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view `VirtualMachine` resources across all the clusters that {acm} manages, use the Search feature to list and filter the `VirtualMachine` resources created with {ocp-virt}. You can also enable the following actions from the {acm} console on your `VirtualMachine` resources:
```

Reviewer 2: We should mention the Virtual machines view here. Probably this view should be the first option, search is an alternative.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6be46dd7-44fb-4102-b826-df3e193fefca)

Author: Is there an option in the action menu (the three dots) to enable the actions? I like your suggestion to just add the statement mentioning that it can be done. This is because we are reducing the console instructions

- Start
- Stop
- Restart
- Pause
- Unpause

[#vm-actions-prereq]
== Prerequisites

> - *Required access:* What's the required access level? 

Reviewer 2: This should be done by the cluster admin.

> - *Required access:* What's the required access level? 

Author: ```suggestion
- *Required access:* Cluster administrator
```

> - You must enable the ManagedServiceAccount add-on. See link:../../clusters/install_upgrade/adv_config_install.adoc#serviceaccount-addon-intro[ManagedServiceAccount add-on].

Reviewer 2: This add-on es enabled by default. Should we change this to:
`Confirm the ManagedServiceAccount add-on is enabled. See link: ...`

> - You must enable the ManagedServiceAccount add-on. See link:../../clusters/install_upgrade/adv_config_install.adoc#serviceaccount-addon-intro[ManagedServiceAccount add-on].

Author: ```suggestion
- Confirm that the ManagedServiceAccount add-on is enabled. See link:../../clusters/install_upgrade/adv_config_install.adoc#serviceaccount-addon-intro[ManagedServiceAccount add-on].
```

[#enable-actions-acm]
== Enabling virtual machine actions for {acm-short}

You can enable the virtual machine actions for {acm-short} by updating the console config map. Complete the following steps:

. To update the {acm-short} console config map for enabling virtual machine actions, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> console-config -n open-cluster-management -p '{"data": {"VIRTUAL_MACHINE_ACTIONS": "enabled"}}'

Reviewer 2: Incomplete command
```suggestion
oc patch configmap console-config -n open-cluster-management -p '{"data": {"VIRTUAL_MACHINE_ACTIONS": "enabled"}}'
```

I'm checking if we really need to patch both config maps.

> oc patch configmap console-config -n open-cluster-management -p '{"data": {"VIRTUAL_MACHINE_ACTIONS": "enabled"}}'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oc patch configmap console-mce-config -n multicluster-engine -p '{"data": {"VIRTUAL_MACHINE_ACTIONS": "enabled"}}'
```

I confirmed this is the only ConfigMap that needs to be updated.

----

> . To run the actions, create and configure a `ManagedServiceAccount` resource for each managed cluster. Save the following YAML file:

Reviewer 2: This doesn't run the action. This is configuration needed by the console to trigger the action.
The action is triggered when the user clicks on the console.

_Notice that it isn't typical, or user friendly, to require manual configuration. The reason for this is because the feature is tech-preview._

> . To run the actions, create and configure a `ManagedServiceAccount` resource for each managed cluster. Save the following YAML file:

Author: ```suggestion
. To initiate the actions, create and configure a `ManagedServiceAccount` resource for each managed cluster. Save the following YAML file:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: authentication.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: ManagedServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: vm-actor
  labels:
    app: search
spec:
  rotation: {}
---
apiVersion: rbac.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterPermission
metadata:
  name: vm-actions
  labels:
    app: search
spec:
  clusterRole:
    rules:
      - apiGroups:
          - subresources.kubevirt.io
        resources:
          - virtualmachines/start
          - virtualmachines/stop
          - virtualmachines/restart
          - virtualmachineinstances/pause
          - virtualmachineinstances/unpause
        verbs:
          - update
  clusterRoleBinding:
    subject:
      kind: ServiceAccount
      name: vm-actor
      namespace: open-cluster-management-agent-addon
----
+
*Note:* You must repeat this step for each new managed cluster.

> . Apply the `ManagedServiceAccount` resource to your managed cluster by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: This is applied on the hub cluster.
The phrase `to your managed cluster` could be confusing and incorrectly interpreted to perform the action on the managed cluster.

> . Apply the `ManagedServiceAccount` resource to your managed cluster by running the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. Apply the `ManagedServiceAccount` resource to your hub cluster by running the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
oc apply -n <MANAGED_CLUSTER> -f /path/to/file
----

The virtual machine actions are enabled for {acm-short}.

[#disable-vm-actions]
== Disabling virtual machine actions

To disable virtual machine actions for {acm-short}, run the following command:

[source,bash]
----

> oc patch configmap console-config -n open-cluster-management -p '{"data": {"VIRTUAL_MACHINE_ACTIONS": "disabled"}}'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oc patch configmap console-mce-config -n multicluster-engine -p '{"data": {"VIRTUAL_MACHINE_ACTIONS": "disabled"}}'
```

----

> The actions are disabled.

Reviewer 2: Matching line 81 for consistency.
```suggestion
The virtual machine actions are disabled for {acm-short}.
```

[#delete-vm-actions]
== Deleting ManagedServiceAccounts and ClusterPermissions resources

To delete `ManagedServiceAccounts` and `ClusterPermissions` resources that use virtual machine actions, complete the following steps:

. To delete `ManagedServiceAccounts` resources, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete managedserviceaccount -A -l app=search
----

. To delete `ClusterPermissions` resources, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete clusterpermission -A -l app=search

> ----

Reviewer 2: You could combine both delete actions in a single command to keep it simple. 
```bash
oc delete managedserviceaccount,clusterpermission -A -l app=search
```

Author: Will they both be deleted even though there is a comma in the command? or is the comma being used to show that the command can be used to delete both resources?

Reviewer 2: Yes, both are deleted. The comma is used to list multiple resources.

Here's an example of the command with the output.
```bash
$ oc delete managedserviceaccount,clusterpermission -A -l app=search
managedserviceaccount.authentication.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actor" deleted
managedserviceaccount.authentication.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actor" deleted
clusterpermission.rbac.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actions" deleted
clusterpermission.rbac.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actions" deleted
```

> . To delete `ManagedServiceAccounts` resources, run the following command:
> 
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> oc delete managedserviceaccount -A -l app=search
> ----
> 
> . To delete `ClusterPermissions` resources, run the following command:
> 
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> oc delete clusterpermission -A -l app=search
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
. To delete `ManagedServiceAccounts` and `ClusterPermissions` resources, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete managedserviceaccount,clusterpermission -A -l app=search
----
+
You might receive the following output:

+
[source,bash]
----
managedserviceaccount.authentication.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actor" deleted managedserviceaccount.authentication.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actor" deleted clusterpermission.rbac.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actions" deleted clusterpermission.rbac.open-cluster-management.io "vm-actions" deleted
----
```

. To confirm that the clean up is complete, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> echo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oc get managedserviceaccount,clusterpermission -A -l app=search
```
This should return "No resources found"

----

+

> You might receive the following message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should receive the following message:
```

Author: ```suggestion
When the resources are deleted successfully, you receive the following message:
```

+
[source,bash]
----

> "Virtual Machine tech preview cleanup complete."

Author: ```suggestion
"No resources found"
```

----

The `ManagedServiceAccounts` and `ClusterPermissions` resources are deleted.

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
